When working with events, there are a couple of things you oftentimes encounter in real applications
which you need to solve and as you learned, vuejs makes solving these things easier.
But what do you what are these things? Let's enhance our application here by taking this paragraph where
we output the coordinates and I want to create kind of a dead spot,
so here I'll enter a span
and once I hover over this, I don't want to update the coordinates.
Now of course right now, if I save this it is still updated because this span is part of this paragraph
on which I'm listening to any mouse moves. I can now set up my own event here and I will call it mouse
move as well
and here I simply want to execute nothing,
well one solution would be to still execute a function here, so I'll name it dummy and add it down here
in the methods object.
Dummy of course would be a function
and in this function,
all I want to do is I want to fetch the event which gets passed automatically and here I could call stop
propagation to make sure that it does not propagate up to elements holding this element, this span here.
If I now hit control, you'll see that once I hover over to that spot, the coordinates no longer get well
updated because now we're stopping the propagation which means only handle the element here
in this handler, don't let it propagate up to any elements which might hold this element.
Yeah we could do it like this but we can even get a bit easier than that,
I can remove this dummy here and I can simply execute nothing here but use a so-called modifier, an event
modifier,
it allows me to modify the behavior of this event,
that's where the name comes from, clever huh.
Here I add such a modifier by adding a dot after the name of the event which I pass as an argument to
be on and the modifier I want to use
here is stop for stop propagation.
If I now hit control enter, we see the same behavior as before even though I don't even execute a function
here because vuejs now does this for me,
it kind of has this internediate function which is between my function, no function in this case and
this time when the event is emitted or when we get the event. It then runs this little function which simply
does one thing, it stops the propagation of the event.
We also get other modifiers,
the probably most important second one being prevent for running prevent default, so running stop propagation
with the stop modifier and prevent default,
the two common methods you have when working with the default event object,
these are available with these modifiers like .stop here.
You can also chain them just as a side note by adding .prevent here as well which won't do anything
here but you could add them or chain them, just like that.